# G.E.A.R. Sequencer usage notes

- The code uses interrupts and the DirectIO library to keep it responsive to clock pulses, but handling the OLED is slow and the response to parameter changing could potentially become sluggish if changes happen at high rates. Once you have a patch set up and running, the display might not be very useful, so you can turn it off using the front panel toggle switch, and that should improve responsiveness (and be less distracting).

- For most of the parameters, a fairly large change in potentiometer position or CV is required to make the parameter change. For the ADC algorithm, the Value parameter is an exception, since it can take any of 1024 values. Even so this isn't likely to be a problem if the period is short (say, under 8). But with period 10, even a 5 millivolt change in the CV will change the trigger pattern. This is part of why the Nano runs on its own on-board regulator while the OLED is powered by an off-board one, because that reduces noise on the CV inputs that can wreak havoc with the ADC Value parameter. If you plug in a CV and find Value is jumping around erratically you probably have noise on that CV. One thing you can try is running the CV through a low pass filter or lag processor to smooth out high frequency noise.

- Unlike with the Euclidean and random algorithms, where changing *T* by one can give a completely different pattern, incrementing *T* in the gap algorithm simply converts one non-trigger step in the pattern to a trigger step. This is something that can be usefully exploited with a slowly varying control voltage, gradually adding or removing triggers from the sequence pattern.

- When *G* is an even divisor of *P* in the gap algorithm, the maximum number of triggers is only a fraction of *P*. (Specifically, *P* divided by the greatest common divisor of *P* and *G*.) So periods with lots of divisors, such as 12, offer fewer possibilities than prime periods, like 11 or 13. To get more possibilities for 12 (for instance), you can "cheat": set *P* to 13. Now you can get as many triggers as you want with *G* being any number from 1 through 6. Then use an external clock divider to pulse the reset input every 12 clock pulses.

